## The Aurora RPG Engine – Part 3

## Base Underpinnings and the Dice Pool

At its fundamental level, this is a d6 dice pool system, chosen for the
numerous of advantages it brings to the table:

First and foremost is the pure *visceral* aspect of a dice pool.  By
holding a number of dice in our hand we gain instant feedback of our
strength in that moment.  We feel it.  As characters progress in skill
and ability, it's immediately apparent through the number of dice.  So
too is the impact of adding or subtracting modifiers.  At each moment in
the game we feel our character's chance of success (or not).  Altogether
it is much more personal than a faceless target number, and as such the
experience of rolling heightens our emotional attachment.

Secondly, [to summarize this earlier blog
post](https://lynxthoughts.com/2014/12/04/gaming-thursday-rpg-system-5-dice-pool-thoughts/),
it allows for an elegant way of handling multiple actions by a character
in a turn:  for each declared action above the first, subtract one die
from every test made.  This allows for a sweet differentiation between
experienced and inexperienced characters while also elegantly handing
movement and incidental actions.  Within this system there are no fixed
silos of (arbitrarily increasing) attacks per turn, no rigid number of
actions/moves/bonus actions, or the like; instead it provides a unified
and organic method that promotes options, interesting choices, and crazy
excitement.

Thirdly, it allows for various sub-systems and abilities (such as
martial arts, stunts, equipment traits, or other similar things) where
removing dice can be used to "fuel" special maneuvers or attacks.

Lastly, because we're dealing solely with dice, both the number of
calculations as well as the values involved tend to remain low.  There's
no need to add, for example, +17 to a roll.  Starting with a base number
of dice (likely to be less than 10), then adding or subtracting a few
dice (likely to be less than 6 either way) for modifiers keeps things
simple.  Even if our list of modifiers grows large, because we are
dealing with actual dice it remains easy to calculate things by going
through modifiers one by one and physically adding or removing dice from
our hand until the final value is reached.<span id="more-6602"></span>


**The Elegance of Multiple Actions.**  The primary interesting choice
that arises from the concept of removing a die per additional action is
just that – "How many actions do I want to take?"Here is why the idea of
"remove a die per additional action" is so exciting and interesting to
me:  Under this idea, a character performing a single task for which
they have a good level of skill – and it gets even more prevalent as
they gain more experience and thus have more dice in their pool – is not
only likely to succeed but, when coupled with the idea of a Margin of
Success (to be explained further below), wildly succeed.  And with
greater success comes greater effect.  But there are times where doing
something several times in a round (and losing a die or two to each
roll) could still be advantageous, even with a more mundane or baseline
level of effect.  For example, in a combat situation, do I want to fire
a single, excellent shot, or do I want to fire several shots (perhaps at
several enemies) with a reduced chance of effect or success?  If I'm
playing in a game where the damage of a weapon is set such that a single
shot may drop an average foe, then one shot across three foes could be a
worthwhile gamble.  It's a nice setup for choice.  It also provides
another way to highlight a gunslinger's higher skill in gunslinging
compared to that of his teammates – they not only hit more often but can
do these kinds of multiple attacks more effectively, taking out goons
and mooks in droves.

These choices are further expanded when considering the temptation to do
several things at once, or, through encounter design, "needing" to split
focus and attempt many things all at once.  Throwing complications that
require character involvement to stop them in the midst of other chaos
(such as combat) is a time honoured GM technique for a good reason, and
within Aurora's framework the choice gets more interesting than the
binary "do I do this or that" by expanding it to "can I or should I
split my attention here and try to do both?"  All while handling the
extra actions elegantly.


**Handling Movement as Actions. ** One option is to incorporate movement
into the action economy.  Each character is given a base movement rate
of X they can move in a round without requiring an action.  For every
extra X distance they wish to cover in a round (up to a maximum to
prevent infinite speed), it counts as an additional action.  Just like
that, we have an automatic penalty built into other actions that would
be affected by movement (be it shooting, working on a tablet computer,
or prepping a spell) without requiring a separate table of modifiers to
account for it.  And once again, it provides for interesting tactical
choices:  How *far* do I want to move this round, knowing the penalty? 
Is it better to move all the way in one round, or to do so in increments
with a lessor penalty to these actions I want or need to take?



---
previous: [Intentions, Advantages, and the Core Resolution Engine](./part02.txt)  
next: [Fixed Target Number and Difficulty as Die Modifiers](./part04.txt)
...
