##[The Aurora RPG Engine – Part 1

## Introduction

To begin, I'm not sure there can be a truly universal RPG system that
can, or will, fit each and every RPG possible.  Every genre, sub-genre,
and even playstyle within each (sub)genre is going to have its own
flavour.  For example, for a campaign set in a post-apocalyptic
Australia, the tone, focus, and involvement is going to be vastly
different if playing in the way of Tank Girl (silly hijinks) versus
playing in the way of Mad Max (amped up action/adventure) versus playing
in the way of Twilight 2000 or Wasteland (gritty, minutia, perilous). 
The rules of the system used for those campaigns needs to be designed to
fit and support their unique flavour and to thereby draw out the
specific feel of the (sub)genre.  Between each type of campaign there
are going to be differences.

That said, I do believe there's still plenty of space for a core
framework that can form the foundation for these different campaign
types, using customization and specific sub-systems to appropriately
mold the system to fit the (sub)genre and feel of both the world and the
playstyle.  Thus, creating more of a universal "toolkit" rather than a
single universal "system."<span id="more-6573"></span>

Unfortunately, what follows is not – yet – a complete toolkit.  While
the beginnings are here, more work is needed before it completely comes
to fruition.  However, the core resolution framework that underpins this
toolkit is solid and ready to be released.  And so consider this
document a concept paper that describes and details a core resolution
framework (the *engine*) that can power and propel a variety of games,
offering benefits and advantages that can be leveraged to full effect in
support of the features, facets, and feel of the campaign being played
and, most importantly, the characters and stories being told therein.

I am excited for the possibilities Aurora offers to all manner of
campaigns and I've already got several in mind to develop for my gaming
group.  In time I will share their development, using them as examples
of how to add to this core engine to create a complete and full-fledged
game system.

Game on\!

**Designer Notes and More.**  Throughout, additional designer notes and
discussions will appear in grey boxes, like this.  This is to give
further background on the whys, intentions, underpinnings, and
rationales of Aurora, as well as thoughts on how, conceptually, to best
use the resolution system.

**System Examples.**  Blue boxes like this contain more specific ideas
for the multitude of sub-systems that hook onto the core to make a
complete game system.


---
previous: [Index](./index.txt)
next: [Intentions, Advantages, and the Core Resolution Engine](./part02.txt)
...